README.md, before:

Computer Science, Machine Learning & Natural Language Processing
================================================================

*Under (permanent) construction*

Historical papers
=================
1. [On Computable Numbers with an Application to the Entscheidungsproblem](https://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/Turing_Paper_1936.pdf) - By A.M. Turing, 1936
2. [Computing Machinery and Intelligence](http://cogprints.org/499/1/turing.html) By A.M. Turing, 1950.
3. [A Mathematical Theory of Communication](http://people.math.harvard.edu/~ctm/home/text/others/shannon/entropy/entropy.pdf) By C. Shannon, 1948
4. [The perceptron: A probabilistic model for information storage and organization in the brain](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.335.3398&rep=rep1&type=pdf) by F. Rossenblat.
5. [Learning representations by back-propagating errors](http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~hinton/absps/naturebp.pdf) By D.Rumelhart, G.Hinton y R.Williams.

Books
=====
1. [Probability Theory: The Logic of Science](https://www.amazon.com/Probability-Theory-Science-T-Jaynes/dp/0521592712) By E.T. Jaynes
2. [Speech and Language Processing](https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/) By J.H. Martin and D. Jurafsky (3rd edition draft)
3. [Reinforcement Learning: an Introduction](http://incompleteideas.net/book/the-book-2nd.html) - By R. Sutton and A. Barto
4. [Machine Learnning](https://www.amazon.com/-/es/Tom-M-Mitchell/dp/0070428077) - By T. Mitchell 

General Surveys 
===============
1. [Turing Machines](https://www.scientificamerican.com/index.cfm/_api/render/file/?method=inline&fileID=0AA52C13-7ADB-45E6-AEE4E71BDD9EB7A9) - An article in 1984 Scientific American by John E. Hopcropt, about Turing Machines, A.M. Turing, and the history of computability and computational complexity.
2. [Deep Learning](https://www.nature.com/articles/nature14539) - A review of Deep Learning for Nature. By LeCun, Bengio & Hinton



Foundations
===========
1. [Machine Learning is fun!](https://medium.com/p/80ea3ec3c471) - A _really_ nice machine learning intro, a topic that actually _needs_ an intro. By Adam Geitgey. 
2. [Intuition for Simulated Annealing](http://rs.io/2014/02/16/simulated-annealing-intuition.html) - Shake!. By Robb Seaton.
3. [Everything You Wanted to Know about the Kernel Trick (But Were Too Afraid to Ask)](http://www.eric-kim.net/eric-kim-net/posts/1/kernel_trick.html). By Eric Kim.
4. [Principal Component Analysis (PCA) vs Ordinary Least Squares (OLS): A Visual Explanation](http://www.cerebralmastication.com/2010/09/principal-component-analysis-pca-vs-ordinary-least-squares-ols-a-visual-explination/) - By J.D. Long
5. [Markov Chains](http://setosa.io/blog/2014/07/26/markov-chains/index.html) - A visual explanation. By Lewis Lehe.
6. [A Beginner’s Guide to Eigenvectors, PCA, Covariance and Entropy](http://deeplearning4j.org/eigenvector) - by [Skymind](http://www.skymind.io/). The most intuitive introduction to Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues I've found so far.
7. [Visual Information Theory](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-09-Visual-Information/) - by C. Olah. Entropy, Cross-entropy, and KL-divergence visually explained...
8. [The Matrix Calculus You Need For Deep Learning](http://parrt.cs.usfca.edu/doc/matrix-calculus/index.html) - by Terrence Parr and Jeremy Howard. 
9. [Seeing Theory](http://students.brown.edu/seeing-theory/) By Daniel Kunin. A visual introduction to Probability and Statistics

Causality
=========
1. [The book of why](https://www.amazon.com/-/es/Judea-Pearl/dp/046509760X) - by J. and D. Mackenzie
2. [Casual Inference in Statistics - A Primer](https://www.amazon.com/-/es/Causal-Inference-Statistics-Judea-Pearl/dp/1119186846/) - by J. Pearl [webpage and references](http://bayes.cs.ucla.edu/PRIMER/)
3. [Fairness and machine learning - Chapter 4: Causality](https://fairmlbook.org/causal.html) by S. Barocas et al.
4. [Causality: Models Reasoning and Inference](https://www.amazon.com/-/es/Judea-Pearl/dp/052189560X) by J. Pearl
5. [Causality for Machine Learning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.10500.pdf) by B. Schölkopf
6. [ML beyond Curve Fitting: An Intro to Causal Inference and do-Calculus](https://www.inference.vc/untitled/) by F. Huszár
7. [Introduction to Causal Inference](https://www.bradyneal.com/causal-inference-course) course by B. Neal


Deep Learning
=============
1. [Deep Learning, NLP, and Representations](http://colah.github.io/posts/2014-07-NLP-RNNs-Representations/) - By C. Olah
2. [Neural Networks and Deep Learning](http://neuralnetworksanddeeplearning.com/) - By Micheal Nielsen. A great online book on neural networks. 
3. [Calculus on computational graphs: backpropagation](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Backprop/) - by C. Olah. Backpropagation explained as calculus on computational graphs
4. [Understanding LSTM Networks](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs/) - by C.Olah
5. [The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Recurrent Neural Networks](http://karpathy.github.io/2015/05/21/rnn-effectiveness/) - by A. Karpathy. An introduction to RNN and charater-level language models.
6. [Understanding Convolutions](https://colah.github.io/posts/2014-07-Understanding-Convolutions/) - by C.Olah (2014)
7. [Conv Nets: A Modular Perspective](https://colah.github.io/posts/2014-07-Conv-Nets-Modular/) - by C.Olah (2014) - How convolutional neural networks work. 



Unsupervised Learning
=====================

1. [A tutorial on PCA](http://www.cs.otago.ac.nz/cosc453/student_tutorials/principal_components.pdf) - Lindsay Smith - 2002 - Very clear, step by step, introduction to Principal Component Analysis

Supervised Learning
===================

1. [Model Evaluation, Model Selection, and Algorithm Selection in Machine Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.12808) - Sebastian Raschka - A great overview of supervised learning methodology

Programming Machine Learning
============================

1. [Introduction to NumPy](https://sebastianraschka.com/pdf/books/dlb/appendix_f_numpy-intro.pdf) - By Sebastian Raschka (Appendix F)
2. [An introduction to NumPy and SciPy](https://engineering.ucsb.edu/~shell/che210d/numpy.pdf) - By M. Scott Shell
3. [Implementing a Principal Component Analysis (PCA)](http://sebastianraschka.com/Articles/2014_pca_step_by_step.html) - by Sebastian Raschka. Using Python and NumPy. 

Visualization
=============

1. [Visual Vocabulary (.png)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ft-interactive/chart-doctor/master/visual-vocabulary/poster.png) - By ft.com - How to visualize your data, depending on what you want to emphasize. 
2. [Visualizing the uncertainty in data](https://flowingdata.com/2018/01/08/visualizing-the-uncertainty-in-data/) - By Nathan Yau
3. [Fundamentals of Data Visualization](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/) - By Claus Wilke - "The book is meant as a guide to making visualizations that accurately reflect the data, tell a story, and look professional."
4. [How to make beautiful data visualizations in Python with matplotlib](http://www.randalolson.com/2014/06/28/how-to-make-beautiful-data-visualizations-in-python-with-matplotlib/) - By Randal Olson

Applications
===============

1. [Movie Recommendations with k-Nearest Neighbors and Cosine Similarity](http://gist.neo4j.org/?8173017) - By Nicole White.
2. [Sentiment Analysis on Movie Reviews](https://github.com/rafacarrascosa/samr) - By Rafael Carrascosa. Sentiment Analysis using Random Forests. 

Yet assorted
============

1. [Logs, Tails, Long Tails](http://moultano.wordpress.com/2013/08/09/logs-tails-long-tails/) - By Ryan Moulton. Why log probabilities are useful. Why long tails matter.
2. [Tiny Data, Approximate Bayesian Computation and the Socks of Karl Broman](http://www.sumsar.net/blog/2014/10/tiny-data-and-the-socks-of-karl-broman/) - By Rasmus Bååth. 

Advanced
========

1. [Deep Reinforcement Learning Doesn't Work Yet](https://www.alexirpan.com/2018/02/14/rl-hard.html) - By Alex Irpan.

Reviews
=======

1. [NLP Year in Review 2019](https://medium.com/dair-ai/nlp-year-in-review-2019-fb8d523bcb19) - By Elvis. Very comprehensive.



My tutorials / Guías (English/Spanish)
======================================

1. [Yet Another Python Encoding Tutorial](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/1%20-%20Yet%20Another%20Python%20Encoding%20Tutorial.ipynb) (Python 2)
2. [Matrices for Data Scientists](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/2.%20-%20Matrices%20for%20data%20scientists.ipynb)
3. [Natural Language Parsing with Python](https://github.com/gmonce/nltk_parsing) 
4. Ciencia de Datos: lo mínimo que hay que saber
    * 4.1 [NumPy](https://github.com/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Intro_NumPy.ipynb)
    * 4.2 [Pandas](https://github.com/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Intro_Pandas.ipynb)
    * 4.3 [Matplotlib y Seaborn](https://github.com/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Intro_Matplotlib.ipynb)

Presentaciones (in Spanish)
===========================

1. [Seminario Ciencia de Datos](https://github.com/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/presentaciones/Seminario%20Ciencia%20de%20Datos.pdf) - Slides for a 8-hour seminar on Data Science. Facultad de Ciencias Económicas - Universidad de la República - Uruguay
2. [Veinte Años de Aprendizaje Automático](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L5pUoANxU-o) - Talk at the GX27 Meeting - Uruguay - 2017
3. [Machine Learning, Python y el Titanic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6MZFsZ9HINE) - Talk at Tech Meetup Uruguay - 2014 - [Slides](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Titanic.ipynb)
4. [Aprendizaje automático en el mundo real](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G6mU-uffY8Q&t=409s) - Talk at the GX28 Meeting - Uruguay 2018
5. [Olas, inviernos, ciencia y tecnología: Lo que aprendí del Procesamiento de Lenguaje Natural](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MizC8L-FcU4) - Talk at the GX29 Meeting - Uruguay - 2019


Amusements / Entretenimiento
============================

1. [Figuritas](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Figuritas.ipynb)
2. [Mentiras, malditas mentiras, y encuestas](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Mentiras.ipynb)
3. [Mi "predicción" para las elecciones 2014 en Uruguay](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Elecciones2014.ipynb) 
4. [Sobreajuste](https://github.com/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Sobreajustando.ipynb) - Una increíblemente precisa predicción de casos de COVID-19

Commit message:

Added link to a video tutorial about Transformer

README.md, after:

Computer Science, Machine Learning & Natural Language Processing
================================================================

*Under (permanent) construction*

Historical papers
=================
1. [On Computable Numbers with an Application to the Entscheidungsproblem](https://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/Turing_Paper_1936.pdf) - By A.M. Turing, 1936
2. [Computing Machinery and Intelligence](http://cogprints.org/499/1/turing.html) By A.M. Turing, 1950.
3. [A Mathematical Theory of Communication](http://people.math.harvard.edu/~ctm/home/text/others/shannon/entropy/entropy.pdf) By C. Shannon, 1948
4. [The perceptron: A probabilistic model for information storage and organization in the brain](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.335.3398&rep=rep1&type=pdf) by F. Rossenblat.
5. [Learning representations by back-propagating errors](http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~hinton/absps/naturebp.pdf) By D.Rumelhart, G.Hinton y R.Williams.

Books
=====
1. [Probability Theory: The Logic of Science](https://www.amazon.com/Probability-Theory-Science-T-Jaynes/dp/0521592712) By E.T. Jaynes
2. [Speech and Language Processing](https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/) By J.H. Martin and D. Jurafsky (3rd edition draft)
3. [Reinforcement Learning: an Introduction](http://incompleteideas.net/book/the-book-2nd.html) - By R. Sutton and A. Barto
4. [Machine Learnning](https://www.amazon.com/-/es/Tom-M-Mitchell/dp/0070428077) - By T. Mitchell 

General Surveys 
===============
1. [Turing Machines](https://www.scientificamerican.com/index.cfm/_api/render/file/?method=inline&fileID=0AA52C13-7ADB-45E6-AEE4E71BDD9EB7A9) - An article in 1984 Scientific American by John E. Hopcropt, about Turing Machines, A.M. Turing, and the history of computability and computational complexity.
2. [Deep Learning](https://www.nature.com/articles/nature14539) - A review of Deep Learning for Nature. By LeCun, Bengio & Hinton



Foundations
===========
1. [Machine Learning is fun!](https://medium.com/p/80ea3ec3c471) - A _really_ nice machine learning intro, a topic that actually _needs_ an intro. By Adam Geitgey. 
2. [Intuition for Simulated Annealing](http://rs.io/2014/02/16/simulated-annealing-intuition.html) - Shake!. By Robb Seaton.
3. [Everything You Wanted to Know about the Kernel Trick (But Were Too Afraid to Ask)](http://www.eric-kim.net/eric-kim-net/posts/1/kernel_trick.html). By Eric Kim.
4. [Principal Component Analysis (PCA) vs Ordinary Least Squares (OLS): A Visual Explanation](http://www.cerebralmastication.com/2010/09/principal-component-analysis-pca-vs-ordinary-least-squares-ols-a-visual-explination/) - By J.D. Long
5. [Markov Chains](http://setosa.io/blog/2014/07/26/markov-chains/index.html) - A visual explanation. By Lewis Lehe.
6. [A Beginner’s Guide to Eigenvectors, PCA, Covariance and Entropy](http://deeplearning4j.org/eigenvector) - by [Skymind](http://www.skymind.io/). The most intuitive introduction to Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues I've found so far.
7. [Visual Information Theory](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-09-Visual-Information/) - by C. Olah. Entropy, Cross-entropy, and KL-divergence visually explained...
8. [The Matrix Calculus You Need For Deep Learning](http://parrt.cs.usfca.edu/doc/matrix-calculus/index.html) - by Terrence Parr and Jeremy Howard. 
9. [Seeing Theory](http://students.brown.edu/seeing-theory/) By Daniel Kunin. A visual introduction to Probability and Statistics

Causality
=========
1. [The book of why](https://www.amazon.com/-/es/Judea-Pearl/dp/046509760X) - by J. and D. Mackenzie
2. [Casual Inference in Statistics - A Primer](https://www.amazon.com/-/es/Causal-Inference-Statistics-Judea-Pearl/dp/1119186846/) - by J. Pearl [webpage and references](http://bayes.cs.ucla.edu/PRIMER/)
3. [Fairness and machine learning - Chapter 4: Causality](https://fairmlbook.org/causal.html) by S. Barocas et al.
4. [Causality: Models Reasoning and Inference](https://www.amazon.com/-/es/Judea-Pearl/dp/052189560X) by J. Pearl
5. [Causality for Machine Learning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.10500.pdf) by B. Schölkopf
6. [ML beyond Curve Fitting: An Intro to Causal Inference and do-Calculus](https://www.inference.vc/untitled/) by F. Huszár
7. [Introduction to Causal Inference](https://www.bradyneal.com/causal-inference-course) course by B. Neal


Deep Learning
=============
1. [Deep Learning, NLP, and Representations](http://colah.github.io/posts/2014-07-NLP-RNNs-Representations/) - By C. Olah
2. [Neural Networks and Deep Learning](http://neuralnetworksanddeeplearning.com/) - By Micheal Nielsen. A great online book on neural networks. 
3. [Calculus on computational graphs: backpropagation](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Backprop/) - by C. Olah. Backpropagation explained as calculus on computational graphs
4. [Understanding LSTM Networks](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs/) - by C.Olah
5. [The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Recurrent Neural Networks](http://karpathy.github.io/2015/05/21/rnn-effectiveness/) - by A. Karpathy. An introduction to RNN and charater-level language models.
6. [Understanding Convolutions](https://colah.github.io/posts/2014-07-Understanding-Convolutions/) - by C.Olah (2014)
7. [Conv Nets: A Modular Perspective](https://colah.github.io/posts/2014-07-Conv-Nets-Modular/) - by C.Olah (2014) - How convolutional neural networks work. 
8. [Attention is All you Need: Before you Read Transformer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qYcy6h1Rkgg&list=PLA4FxgvZfCDBkjH160QplvSwEiqrjO0ad&index=3&t=8s) - Video tutorial by @NamVo about the Transformer Architecure presente in the paper [Attention is All You Need](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/2017/file/3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-Paper.pdf)


Unsupervised Learning
=====================

1. [A tutorial on PCA](http://www.cs.otago.ac.nz/cosc453/student_tutorials/principal_components.pdf) - Lindsay Smith - 2002 - Very clear, step by step, introduction to Principal Component Analysis

Supervised Learning
===================

1. [Model Evaluation, Model Selection, and Algorithm Selection in Machine Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.12808) - Sebastian Raschka - A great overview of supervised learning methodology

Programming Machine Learning
============================

1. [Introduction to NumPy](https://sebastianraschka.com/pdf/books/dlb/appendix_f_numpy-intro.pdf) - By Sebastian Raschka (Appendix F)
2. [An introduction to NumPy and SciPy](https://engineering.ucsb.edu/~shell/che210d/numpy.pdf) - By M. Scott Shell
3. [Implementing a Principal Component Analysis (PCA)](http://sebastianraschka.com/Articles/2014_pca_step_by_step.html) - by Sebastian Raschka. Using Python and NumPy. 

Visualization
=============

1. [Visual Vocabulary (.png)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ft-interactive/chart-doctor/master/visual-vocabulary/poster.png) - By ft.com - How to visualize your data, depending on what you want to emphasize. 
2. [Visualizing the uncertainty in data](https://flowingdata.com/2018/01/08/visualizing-the-uncertainty-in-data/) - By Nathan Yau
3. [Fundamentals of Data Visualization](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/) - By Claus Wilke - "The book is meant as a guide to making visualizations that accurately reflect the data, tell a story, and look professional."
4. [How to make beautiful data visualizations in Python with matplotlib](http://www.randalolson.com/2014/06/28/how-to-make-beautiful-data-visualizations-in-python-with-matplotlib/) - By Randal Olson

Applications
===============

1. [Movie Recommendations with k-Nearest Neighbors and Cosine Similarity](http://gist.neo4j.org/?8173017) - By Nicole White.
2. [Sentiment Analysis on Movie Reviews](https://github.com/rafacarrascosa/samr) - By Rafael Carrascosa. Sentiment Analysis using Random Forests. 

Yet assorted
============

1. [Logs, Tails, Long Tails](http://moultano.wordpress.com/2013/08/09/logs-tails-long-tails/) - By Ryan Moulton. Why log probabilities are useful. Why long tails matter.
2. [Tiny Data, Approximate Bayesian Computation and the Socks of Karl Broman](http://www.sumsar.net/blog/2014/10/tiny-data-and-the-socks-of-karl-broman/) - By Rasmus Bååth. 

Advanced
========

1. [Deep Reinforcement Learning Doesn't Work Yet](https://www.alexirpan.com/2018/02/14/rl-hard.html) - By Alex Irpan.

Reviews
=======

1. [NLP Year in Review 2019](https://medium.com/dair-ai/nlp-year-in-review-2019-fb8d523bcb19) - By Elvis. Very comprehensive.



My tutorials / Guías (English/Spanish)
======================================

1. [Yet Another Python Encoding Tutorial](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/1%20-%20Yet%20Another%20Python%20Encoding%20Tutorial.ipynb) (Python 2)
2. [Matrices for Data Scientists](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/2.%20-%20Matrices%20for%20data%20scientists.ipynb)
3. [Natural Language Parsing with Python](https://github.com/gmonce/nltk_parsing) 
4. Ciencia de Datos: lo mínimo que hay que saber
    * 4.1 [NumPy](https://github.com/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Intro_NumPy.ipynb)
    * 4.2 [Pandas](https://github.com/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Intro_Pandas.ipynb)
    * 4.3 [Matplotlib y Seaborn](https://github.com/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Intro_Matplotlib.ipynb)

Presentaciones (in Spanish)
===========================

1. [Seminario Ciencia de Datos](https://github.com/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/presentaciones/Seminario%20Ciencia%20de%20Datos.pdf) - Slides for a 8-hour seminar on Data Science. Facultad de Ciencias Económicas - Universidad de la República - Uruguay
2. [Veinte Años de Aprendizaje Automático](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L5pUoANxU-o) - Talk at the GX27 Meeting - Uruguay - 2017
3. [Machine Learning, Python y el Titanic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6MZFsZ9HINE) - Talk at Tech Meetup Uruguay - 2014 - [Slides](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Titanic.ipynb)
4. [Aprendizaje automático en el mundo real](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G6mU-uffY8Q&t=409s) - Talk at the GX28 Meeting - Uruguay 2018
5. [Olas, inviernos, ciencia y tecnología: Lo que aprendí del Procesamiento de Lenguaje Natural](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MizC8L-FcU4) - Talk at the GX29 Meeting - Uruguay - 2019


Amusements / Entretenimiento
============================

1. [Figuritas](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Figuritas.ipynb)
2. [Mentiras, malditas mentiras, y encuestas](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Mentiras.ipynb)
3. [Mi "predicción" para las elecciones 2014 en Uruguay](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Elecciones2014.ipynb) 
4. [Sobreajuste](https://github.com/gmonce/datascience/blob/master/src/Sobreajustando.ipynb) - Una increíblemente precisa predicción de casos de COVID-19
